---
header-id: customizing-the-system-settings-user-interface
---

# Customizing the System Settings User Interface

[TOC levels=1-4]

@product@ applications use the Apache Felix Configuration Admin Service to
provide application configuration. By specifying a single Configuration
Interface class, the configuration data is typed and scoped, and the application
gains an auto-generated configuration user interface, available in Control Panel
&rarr; Configuration &rarr; System Settings once the configuration is
registered. If this is new information for you, consider first reading the set
of tutorials on 
[Making Applications Configurable](/docs/7-1/tutorials/-/knowledge_base/t/making-applications-configurable).

This tutorial describes how to customize the System Settings entry's user
interface in the following ways:

- Provide a custom form for a configuration object.

- Write a completely custom configuration UI. This is useful especially if you
  aren't using the Configuration Admin service or any of Liferay's
  Configuration APIs.

- Exclude a configuration object from System Settings. If you're providing a
  completely custom configuration UI but are still using Configuration Admin,
  you'll want to hide the auto-generated UI. If your configuration is not
  meant to be accessible to administrative Users (perhaps because it's too low
  level), you might want to exclude it from the System Settings UI.

## Providing Custom Configuration Forms

This method relies on an existing Config Admin configuration class, as described
[here](/docs/7-1/tutorials/-/knowledge_base/t/making-applications-configurable). 
Here's an example configuration class, from Liferay's own Currency Converter
application:

    @ExtendedObjectClassDefinition(category = "localization")
    @Meta.OCD(
        id = "com.liferay.currency.converter.web.configuration.CurrencyConverterConfiguration",
        localization = "content/Language",
        name = "currency-converter-configuration-name"
    )
    public interface CurrencyConverterConfiguration {

        @Meta.AD(deflt = "GBP|CNY|EUR|JPY|USD", name = "symbols", required = false)
        public String[] symbols();
    }

There's one configuration option, symbols, that takes an array of values. 

All that's necessary to customize an auto-generated form is one additional
class, an implementation of the `ConfigurationFormRenderer` interface.

Implement its three methods:

1.  `getPid`: Return the configuration object's ID. This is defined in the `id`
    property in the `*Configuration` class's `@Meta.OCD` annotation.

2.  `getRequestParameters`: Read the parameters sent by the custom form and put
    them in a Map whose keys should be the names of the fields of the
    Configuration interface.

3.  `render`: Render the custom form's fields, using your desired method (for
    example, JSPs or another template mechanism). The `<form>` tag itself is
    provided automatically and shouldn't be included in the
    `ConfigurationFormRenderer`.

Here's a complete `ConfigurationFormRenderer` implementation:

    @Component(immediate = true, service = ConfigurationFormRenderer.class)
    public class CurrencyConverterConfigurationFormRenderer
        implements ConfigurationFormRenderer {

        @Override
        public String getPid() {
            return "com.liferay.currency.converter.web.configuration.CurrencyConverterConfiguration";
        }

        @Override
        public void render(HttpServletRequest request, HttpServletResponse response)
                throws IOException {
                
            String formHtml = "<input name=\"mysymbols\" />";

            PrintWriter writer = response.getWriter();

            writer.print(formHtml);

        }

        @Override
        public Map<String, Object> getRequestParameters(
                HttpServletRequest request) {

            Map<String, Object> params = new HashMap<>();

            String[] mysymbols = ParamUtil.getParameterValues(request, "mysymbols");

            params.put("symbols", mysymbols);

            return params;
        }
    }

The above example generates a custom rendering (HTML) for the form in the
`render()` method and reads the information entered in the custom form in the
`getRequestParameters()` method.

To see a complete demonstration, including JSP markup, read the dedicated
tutorial on creating a 
[configuration form renderer](/docs/7-1/tutorials/-/knowledge_base/t/configuration-form-renderer).

## Creating a Completely Custom Configuration UI

In some cases, you want a completely custom UI for your configuration. For
example: 

- Your application doesn't use Config Admin to provide its configuration. You
  have a completely different configuration backend, and you'll write a
  completely independent frontend.

- Your application needs more flexibility in its UI, such as multiple
  configuration screens.

To accomplish this, write a `ConfigurationScreen` implementation.

At a high level you must

1.  Write a Component that declares itself an implementation of the
    `ConfigurationScreen` interface.

2.  Implement `Configurationscreen`'s methods.

3.  Create the UI by hand.

Here's an example implementation:

    @Component(immediate = true, service = ConfigurationScreen.class) 
    public class SampleConfigurationScreen implements ConfigurationScreen {

First declare the class an implementation of `ConfigurationScreen`.

    @Override 
    public String getCategoryKey() { 

        return "third-party"; 

    }

    @Override 
    public String getKey() { 

        return "sample-configuration-screen"; 

    }

    @Override 
    public String getName(Locale locale) { 

        return "Sample Configuration Screen"; 

    }

Second, set the category key, the configuration entry's key, and its localized
name. This example puts the configuration entry, keyed
`sample-cofniguration-screen`, into the `third-party` System Settings section.
The String that appears in System Settings is _Sample Configuration Screen_.

    @Override 
    public String getScope() { 

        return "system"; 

    }

Third, set the 
[configuration scope](/docs/7-1/tutorials/-/knowledge_base/t/scoping-configurations).

    @Override 
    public void render(HttpServletRequest request, HttpServletResponse response) 
            throws IOException {

        _jspRenderer.renderJSP( _servletContext, request, response,
        "/sample_configuration_screen.jsp"); 

    }

    @Reference private JSPRenderer _jspRenderer;

    @Reference(
        target ="(osgi.web.symbolicname=com.liferay.currency.converter.web)", 
        unbind = "-")
    private ServletContext _servletContext;

The most important step is to write the `render` method.This example relies on
the `JSPRenderer` service to delegate rendering to a JSP.

It's beyond the scope of this tutorial to write the JSP markup. A separate
tutorial will provide a complete demonstration of the `ConfigurationScreen` and
implementation and the JSP markup to demonstrate its usage.

## Excluding a Configuration UI from System Settings

Providing a custom UI in System Settings is well and good, but what if you
instead must exclude your configuration from the System Settings UI? For
instance, if you're using Config Admin but also providing a
`ConfigurationScreen` implementation and a custom JSP, you'll get two System
Settings entries: the custom one you wrote _and_ the auto-generated UI from
Config Admin. Other times, a configuration is required to be present for
back-end developers but isn't intended to be changed in the UI.

To exclude the UI entry, use the `ExtendedObjectClassDefinition` annotation
property called `generateUI`. It defaults to `true`, so set it to `false` to
suppress the auto-generated UI. Here is an example:

    @ExtendedObjectClassDefinition(generateUI=false)
    @Meta.OCD(
      id = "com.foo.bar.LowLevelConfiguration",
    )
    public interface LowLevelConfiguration {

      public String[] foo();
      public String bar();

    }

Now the configuration is available to be managed programmatically or via
[.config
file](/docs/7-1/user/-/knowledge_base/u/understanding-system-configuration-files),
but not via the System Settings UI.
